Document Nutanix (#1883)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/data-center/nutanix/create-manage-nutanix-cluster.md

---
sidebar_label: "Create and Manage Nutanix Cluster"
title: "Create and Manage Nutanix Cluster"
description: "Learn how to create and manage Nutanix clusters in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---

Palette supports creating and managing Kubernetes clusters deployed to a Nutanix infrastructure environment. This section guides you in creating a Kubernetes cluster in a Nutanix cloud managed by Palette.

## Prerequisites

> - A Nutanix Prism Central cloud account. For more information, review [Add Nutanix Cloud Account](add-nutanix-cloud-account.md). 

Author: Removed Prism as prereq and replaced with: A Nutanix cloud account added to Palette. Refer to [Add Nutanix Cloud Account](add-nutanix-cloud-account.md).

> - A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) deployed. For guidance, review [Install Private Cloud Gateway](install-pcg.md).

Author: added Nutanix

> - The minimum supported CAPI version 1.5.3. Refer to the Nutanix [Validated Integrations](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.2.x/validated_integrations/#validated-versions) compatibility matrix.

Author: Moved to Register Nutanix Cloud doc: A Nutanix cloud created with the minimum supported CAPI version 1.5.3.

> - An infrastructure cluster profile created for the Nutanix cloud. For guidance on creating a profile, refer to [Create an Infrastructure Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-infrastructure-profile.md). At the **Cloud Type** step of profile creation, select **Nutanix** listed under the **Tech Preview**. Select the custom packs provided at the OS and Kubernetes layers. Out-of-the-box packs are provided for the network and storage profile layers. Additionally, Palette provides a Nutanix-specific storage pack.

Author: Revised to say: "Palette provides out-of-the-box packs for the network and storage profile layers, including the **Nutanix CSI** storage pack."

## Deploy a Nutanix Cluster

Use the following steps to deploy a Kubernetes cluster in Nutanix.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu** select **Clusters**.

3. Click on **Add New Cluster** and select **Deploy New Cluster** on the next page Palette displays. 

4. Select **Nutanix** and click the **Start Nutanix Configuration** button.

5. Fill out the following basic information, and click **Next** to continue.

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  |-----------|-----------------|
  | **Cluster Name**| A custom name for the cluster. |
  | **Description**| Use the description to provide context about the cluster.|
  | **Tags**| Assign any desired cluster tags. Tags on a cluster are propagated to the Virtual Machines (VMs) deployed to the target environments.|
  | **Cloud Account** | Select your Nutanix account from the **drop-down Menu**. If you have not yet added your account, select **Add New Account** and add your Nutanix account information. |

6. Select the Nutanix cluster profile you created and click **Next**. Palette displays the profile layers.

> 7. Review profile layers and customize parameters as desired in the YAML files that display when you select a layer. Click **Next** when you are done.

Author: Revised to say: "Review profile layers, leaving the OS and Kubernetes packs empty, and customize parameters as desired in the YAML files that display when you select the network and storage layers."

8. In the Cluster configuration YAML file that Palette displays, edit the file to replace variables within curly braces listed in the table below with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment, and make any adjustments to configure your cluster. Click **Next** when you are done.

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |

>   | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The host static IP address. |

Author: fixed.

>   | `${CLUSTER_ENDPOINT}`| The cluster IP address. |  

Author: Fixed.

  :::caution

  The following applies when replacing variables within curly braces in the YAML configuration files.

    - All the variables must be resolved or have a default value.

    - Names you provide must match. Any names in the YAML files that do not match your Nutanix cluster configuration will result in unsuccessful cluster deployment.

    - Values that are passed as a string, such as names and keys, must be enclosed in quotes, for example `" "`.

    - When replacing values, remove the dollar sign and curly braces.

    - Verify the port specified in the YAM file.
  
  :::

9. In the Node pool configuration YAML files for the master and worker pools, edit the files to replace each occurrence of the variables within curly braces listed in the tables below with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment. You can configure scaling in the Palette UI by specifying the number of nodes in the pool. This corresponds to `replicas` in the YAML file.

  #### Master Pool 

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |

>   | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The Nutanix IP address. |

Author: fixed

  | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your public SSH key. |
  | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with `v`. For example `v.1.26.3` |
  | `${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

>   | `${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}` | The name of your OS image. |

Author: Added: "The name of your OS image as defined in Prism Central. To locate images, navigate in the Nutanix Prism dashboard to **Compute & Storage** and select **Images**."

>   | `${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}` | The name of the subnet for your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

Author: Replaced existing text with: "The name of the subnet as defined in Prism that will be assigned to the virtual machines (VMs) deployed in this cluster."

  #### Worker-Pool

    | **Variable** | **Description** |
    |--------------|-----------------|
    | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your public SSH key. |
    | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with `v`. For example `v.1.26.3` |
    | `${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

>     | `${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}` | The name of your OS image. |

Author: applied same change.

>     | `${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}` | The name of the subnet for your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

Author: applied same change.

## Deploy a Nutanix Cluster

Use the following steps to deploy a Kubernetes cluster in Nutanix.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu** select **Clusters**.

3. Click on **Add New Cluster** and select **Deploy New Cluster** on the next page that Palette displays. 

4. Select **Nutanix** and click the **Start Nutanix Configuration** button.

5. Fill out the following basic information, and click **Next** to continue.

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  |-----------|-----------------|
  | **Cluster Name**| A custom name for the cluster. |
  | **Description**| Use the description to provide context about the cluster.|

>   | **Tags**| Assign any desired cluster tags. Tags on a cluster are propagated to the Virtual Machines (VMs) deployed to the target environments.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | **Tags**| Assign any desired cluster tags.|
```
Tags are not propagated yet.

Author: Deleted sentence.

  | **Cloud Account** | Select your Nutanix account from the **drop-down Menu**. |

6. Select the Nutanix cluster profile you created and click **Next**. Palette displays the profile layers.

7. Review profile layers, leaving the OS and Kubernetes packs empty, and customize parameters as desired in the YAML files that display when you select the network and storage layers. Click **Next** when you are done.

8. In the Cluster configuration YAML file that Palette displays, edit the file to replace variables within curly braces listed in the table below with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment, and make any adjustments to configure your cluster. Click **Next** when you are done.

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|

>   | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |

Reviewer: Please add a comment that it must be the exact same name as the one created in palette in step 5

Author: Added the text in bold: The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. **Use the same cluster name you specified in step 5**.

Additionally, added the text in bold to the cluster Name description in step 5:
A custom name for the cluster. **Use this cluster name for `${CLUSTER_NAME}` variable in the YAML configuration files.**

>   | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The Nutanix Prism Central IP address. |

Reviewer: No. This is the Kubernetes API IP endpoint of the cluster we are creating.

>   | `${NUTANIX_ENDPOINT}`| The Nutanix cluster IP address. |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | `${NUTANIX_ENDPOINT}`| The Nutanix Prism Central IP address.  |  
```

Author: Applied.

  :::caution

  The following applies when replacing variables within curly braces in the YAML configuration files.

    - All the variables must be resolved or have a default value.

    - Verify default values such as the port.

    - Names you provide must match. Any names in the YAML files that do not match your Nutanix cluster configuration will result in unsuccessful cluster deployment.

    - Values that are passed as a string, such as names and keys, must be enclosed in quotes, for example `" "`.

    - When replacing values, remove the dollar sign and curly braces.

  
  :::

9. In the Node pool configuration YAML files for the master and worker pools, edit the files to replace each occurrence of the variables within curly braces listed in the tables below with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment. You can configure scaling in the Palette UI by specifying the number of nodes in the pool. This corresponds to `replicas` in the YAML file.

  #### Master Pool 

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|

>   | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |

Reviewer: Please add a comment that it must be the exact same name as the one created in palette in step 5

Author: Revised the description as: The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. Use the same cluster name you specified in step 5.

>   | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The API IP endpoint for kube-vip. |

Reviewer: Same comment as in step 8

Author: Revised the description as: The Kubernetes API IP endpoint for the cluster you are creating.

## Prerequisites

- A Nutanix cloud account added to Palette. Refer to [Add Nutanix Cloud Account](add-nutanix-cloud-account.md).

<!-- A Nutanix Prism Central cloud account. For more information, review [Add Nutanix Cloud Account](add-nutanix-cloud-account.md).  -->

- A Nutanix Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) deployed. For guidance, review [Install Private Cloud Gateway](./install-pcg/install-pcg.md).

- An infrastructure cluster profile created for the Nutanix cloud. For guidance on creating a profile, refer to [Create an Infrastructure Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-infrastructure-profile.md). At the **Cloud Type** step of profile creation, select **Nutanix** listed under the **Tech Preview**. Select the custom packs provided at the OS and Kubernetes layers. Palette provides out-of-the-box packs for the network and storage profile layers, including the **Nutanix CSI** storage pack.

- A Nutanix Prism Central account with *Prism Admin* role.

- A Nutanix Prism Element cluster created.

> - A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central that will be assigned to the virtual machines (VMs) deployed in the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: @caroldelwing VMs will not be deployed "in" the K8s cluster: they will "make up" (not sure if there is a better word?) the k8s cluster.

```suggestion
- A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central that will be assigned to the virtual machines (VMs) that will make up the Kubernetes cluster.
```

---
sidebar_label: "Create and Manage Nutanix Cluster"
title: "Create and Manage Nutanix Cluster"
description: "Learn how to create and manage Nutanix clusters in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---

> Palette supports creating and managing Kubernetes clusters deployed to a Nutanix infrastructure. This section guides you in creating a Kubernetes cluster in a Nutanix cloud managed by Palette.

Author: will add Nutanix to Vale accept.

> Palette supports creating and managing Kubernetes clusters deployed to a Nutanix infrastructure. This section guides you in creating a Kubernetes cluster in a Nutanix cloud managed by Palette.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Palette supports creating and managing Kubernetes clusters deployed to a Nutanix infrastructure environment. This section guides you in creating a Kubernetes cluster in a Nutanix cloud managed by Palette.
```

Author: added.

## Prerequisites

> - A Nutanix Prism Central cloud account.

Reviewer 2: Let's link the account registration page.

Author: Added.

> - A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) deployed.

Reviewer 2: Let's link to the PCG page this PR created.

Author: added.

> - Minimum supported CAPI version 1.5.3. Refer to the Nutanix [Validated Integrations](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.2.x/validated_integrations/#validated-versions) compatibility matrix.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The minimum supported CAPI version 1.5.3. Refer to the Nutanix [Validated Integrations](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.2.x/validated_integrations/#validated-versions) compatibility matrix.
```

Author: fixed

- An infrastructure cluster profile created for the Nutanix cloud. For guidance on creating a profile, refer to [Create an Infrastructure Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-infrastructure-profile.md). At the **Cloud Type** step of profile creation, select **Nutanix** listed under the **Tech Preview**. Select the custom packs provided at the OS and Kubernetes layers. Out-of-the-box packs are provided for the network and storage profile layers. Additionally, Palette provides a Nutanix-specific storage pack.

## Deploy a Nutanix Cluster

> Use the following steps to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on Nutanix using Palette.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following steps to deploy a Kubernetes cluster in Nutanix.
```

Author: fixed.

6. Select the Nutanix cluster profile you created and click **Next**. Palette displays the profile layers.

7. Review profile layers and customize parameters as desired in the YAML files that display when you select a layer. Click **Next** when you are done.

8. In the Cluster configuration YAML file that Palette displays, edit the file to replace variables within curly braces listed in the table below with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment, and make any adjustments to configure your cluster. Click **Next** when you are done.

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |
  | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The host static IP address. |
  | `${CLUSTER_ENDPOINT}`| The cluster IP address. |  

  :::caution

  The following applies when replacing variables within curly braces in the YAML configuration files.

    - All the variables must be resolved or have a default value.

    - Names you provide must match. Any names in the YAML files that do not match your Nutanix cluster configuration will result in unsuccessful cluster deployment.

>     - Values that are passed as a string, such as names and keys, must be enclosed in quotes, for example " ".

Author: fixed.

    - When replacing values, remove the dollar sign and curly braces.

    - Verify the port specified in the YAM file.
  
  :::

9. In the Node pool configuration YAML files for the master and worker pools, edit the files to replace each occurrence of the variables within curly braces listed in the tables below with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment. You can configure scaling in the Palette UI by specifying the number of nodes in the pool. This corresponds to `replicas` in the YAML file.

  #### Master Pool 

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |

>   | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The Nutanix IP address. |

Reviewer 2: Can we be more specific to what this IP address is for? Is it the workload cluster in Nutanix?

  | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your public SSH key. |

>   | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with  'v'. For example: v.1.26.3 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with  `v`. For example `v.1.26.3`. |
```

Author: fixed.

  | `${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

>   | `${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}` | The name of your OS image. |

Reviewer 2: How would a user know what this value is? Can we provide additional guidance/context?

Author: @cloudmaniac Can you please provide some context around NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME? 
How does the user know what this value is? Do we build it and provide it to user? Do they build it? Where can they find the image? Is it same as OS image?

  | `${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}` | The name of the subnet for your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

> <!-- ${CLUSTER_NAME}
> ${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}
> ${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}
> ${KUBERNETES_VERSION} - precede with v
> ${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}
> ${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME} - replace with OS image
> ${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}  -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: meant to delete the commented out lines. Deleted

>   #### Worker-Pool

Reviewer 2: Let's fix the indentation.

Author: fixed.

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your public SSH key. |

>   | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with  'v'. For example: v.1.26.3 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with  `v`. For example `v.1.26.3`. |
```

Author: fixed.

  | `${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

>   | `${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}` | The name of your OS image. |

Reviewer 2: Same feedback as above.

Author: done

  | `${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}` | The name of the subnet for your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

> <!-- ${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}
> ${KUBERNETES_VERSION} - precede with v, no quotes 
> ${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}
> ${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}
> ${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}  -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

10. Click **Next** when you are done.

11. Review the options for OS patching schedule, scanning, backups, and RBAC. 

12. Click **Validate** and review the cluster configuration and settings summary.

13. Click **Finish Configuration** to deploy the cluster. The cluster details page contains the status and details of the deployment. Use this page to track deployment progress. Provisioning clusters can take several minutes to complete.

14. To edit node pool configurations, navigate to the cluster details page, click the **Nodes** tab, and select the node pool you want to edit. Click the **Edit** button and edit the YAML file that Palette displays. 

15. To edit cluster settings, from the cluster details page, click the **Settings** button and select **Cluster Configuration**. Edit the YAML file that Palette displays.

## Validate

1.  Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. Navigate to the **left Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. The Clusters page displays a list of all available clusters that Palette manages.

> 3. Click on the cluster you created to view its details page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click on the Nutanix cluster you created to view its details page.
```

Author: added

---
sidebar_label: "Create and Manage Nutanix Cluster"
title: "Create and Manage Nutanix Cluster"
description: "Learn how to create and manage Nutanix clusters in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---

Palette supports creating and managing Kubernetes clusters deployed to a Nutanix infrastructure. This section guides you in creating a Kubernetes cluster in a custom Nutanix cloud managed by Palette.

## Prerequisites

- A Nutanix Prism Central cloud account.

- A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) deployed.

- Minimum supported CAPI version v1.5.3. Refer to the Nutanix [Validated Integrations](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.2.x/validated_integrations/#validated-versions) compatibility matrix.

> - A cluster profile created for the Nutanix cloud. To learn how to create a profile, refer to  [Create Cluster Profiles](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/).

Author: They'll create a profile using infrastructure or full profile creation steps, so an info box is added to the profile steps with a brief description of the tech preview section.

- A Cluster API (CAPI) image created for the Nutanix cloud platform. For guidance, refer to [Building CAPI Images for Nutanix Cloud Platform](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/capi/providers/nutanix.html#building-capi-images-for-nutanix-cloud-platform-ncp).

> <!-- - The following YAML files obtained and created during cloud registration process:

Author: Removed

  - cloudClusterTemplate.yaml
  - controlPlanePoolTemplate.yaml
  - infrastructure-component.yaml
  - workerPoolTemplate.yaml -->

## Deploy a Nutanix Cluster

> Use the following steps to deploy a new Nutanix cluster.

Author: Revised to say: Use the following steps to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on Nutanix using Palette.

  | **Tags**| Assign any desired cluster tags. Tags on a cluster are propagated to the Virtual Machines (VMs) deployed to the target environments.|
  | **Cloud Account** | Select your Nutanix account from the **drop-down Menu**. If you have not yet added your account, select **Add New Account** and add your Nutanix account information. |

6. Select the Nutanix cluster profile you created and click **Next**. Palette displays the cluster profile layers.

7. Review the profile layers and customize parameters as desired in the YAML files that display when you select a layer. Click **Next** when you are done.

8. In the Cluster configuration YAML file that Palette displays, edit the file to replace each occurrence of the variables within curly braces listed in the table with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment, and make any adjustments to configure your cluster. Click **Next** when you are done.

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |
  | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The host static IP address. |

>   | `${CLUSTER_ENDPOINT}`| The cluster IP address. |  

Reviewer 3: How do we get the CLUSTER_ENDPOINT? Could we use macros with these variables?
Maybe we could try to improve the UX with a screenshot or a screen recording. What do you think?

Author: Discussed - they use Nutanix as their cluster endpoint.

  :::caution

  The following applies when replacing variables within curly braces in the YAML files.

    - All the variables must be resolved or have a default value.

    - Names you provide must match. Any names in YAML file that do not match your Nutanix cluster configuration will fail.

    - Values that are passed as a string, such as names and keys, must be enclosed in quotes, for example " ".

    - When replacing values, remove the dollar sign and curly braces.

    - Verify the port specified in the YAML.
  
  :::

9. In the Node pool configuration YAML files for the master and worker pools, edit the files to replace each occurrence of the variables within curly braces listed in the tables below with values that apply to your Nutanix cloud environment. You can configure scaling by specifying the number of nodes in the pool, which corresponds to `spec.replicas` in the file.

  #### Master Pool 

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `${CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of the Nutanix workload cluster. |
  | `${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}`| The host static IP address. |

>   | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your SSH key. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your public SSH key. |
```

Author: Added "public"

  | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with  'v'. For example: v.1.26.3 |
  | `${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of your Nutanix Prism cluster. |
  | `${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}` | The name of your OS image. |
  | `${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}` | The name of the subnet for your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

<!-- ${CLUSTER_NAME}
${CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP}
${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}
${KUBERNETES_VERSION} - precede with v
${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}
${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME} - replace with OS image
${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}  -->

  #### Worker-Pool

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|

>   | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your SSH key. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  | `${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}`| Provide your public SSH key. |
```

Author: fixed

  | `${KUBERNETES_VERSION}`| Specify the Kubernetes version for your cluster, and precede the version number with  'v'. For example: v.1.26.3 |
  | `${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}`| The name of your Nutanix Prism cluster. |
  | `${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}` | The name of your OS image. |
  | `${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}` | The name of the subnet for your Nutanix Prism cluster. |

<!-- ${NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY}
${KUBERNETES_VERSION} - precede with v, no quotes 
${NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME}
${NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME}
${NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME}  -->

10. Click **Next** when you are done.

11. Review the options for OS Patchine Schedule, scanning, backups, and RBAC. 

> 12. Click **Validate** and review the cluster configuration and setting settings summary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
12. Click **Validate** and review the cluster configuration and setting summary.
```

Author: Removed "setting"

13. Click **Finish Configuration** to deploy the cluster. The cluster details page contains the status and details of the deployment. Use this page to track the deployment progress. Provisioning clusters can take several minutes to complete.

> 14. To edit node pool configurations, from the cluster details page, click the **Nodes** tab and select the node pool you wnat to edit, and click the **Edit** button. The YAML displays. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
14. To edit node pool configurations, from the cluster details page, click the **Nodes** tab, select the node pool you want to edit, and click the **Edit** button. Edit the YAML that Palette displays. 
```

Author: Fixed

15. To edit cluster settings, from the cluster details page, click the **Settings** button and select **Cluster Configuration**. Edit the YAML that Palette displays.

## Validate

1.  Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. Navigate to the **left Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. The Clusters page displays a list of all available clusters that Palette manages.

3. Click on the cluster you created to view its details page.

4. Ensure the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.

> ## Resources

Reviewer 3: Do we need this section here?

Author: Removed this placeholder section, as it's not needed.

- A Nutanix Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) deployed. For guidance, review [Install Private Cloud Gateway](install-pcg.md).

- An infrastructure cluster profile created for the Nutanix cloud. For guidance on creating a profile, refer to [Create an Infrastructure Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-infrastructure-profile.md). At the **Cloud Type** step of profile creation, select **Nutanix** listed under the **Tech Preview**. Select the custom packs provided at the OS and Kubernetes layers. Palette provides out-of-the-box packs for the network and storage profile layers, including the **Nutanix CSI** storage pack.

## Deploy a Nutanix Cluster

Use the following steps to deploy a Kubernetes cluster in Nutanix.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu** select **Clusters**.

3. Click on **Add New Cluster** and select **Deploy New Cluster** on the next page that Palette displays. 

4. Select **Nutanix** and click the **Start Nutanix Configuration** button.

5. Fill out the following basic information, and click **Next** to continue.

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  |-----------|-----------------|

>   | **Cluster Name**| A custom name for the cluster. Use this cluster name for `${CLUSTER_NAME}` variable in the YAML configuration files. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | **Cluster Name**| A custom name for the cluster. Use this cluster name for the `${CLUSTER_NAME}` variable in the YAML configuration files. |
```

Reviewer 3: :white_check_mark:
